
Although they've certainly tried, scientists have not been able to demonstrate that ESP is a myth. So, ESP is probably real.::Appeal to ignorance


Of course it is reasonable to believe that we have been visited by extraterrestrial beings. After all, plenty of skeptics have tried, but none has been able to disprove that such visitations have occurred.::Appeal to ignorance




A hit man is a person. A two-hundred pound hit man is a two-hundred pound person. Therefore, a good hit man is a good person.::Equivocation::What's good for the goose need not be good for the gander.





That young man was just fine until he read Soren Kierkegaard's Fear and Trembling. It wasn't but a week or so later that he began to walk in his sleep and to emit those awful moans. Therefore, Fear and Trembling is a dangerous book.::False cause

According to the Encyclopaedia Britannica, Mary Cassatt, who is often considered American's greatest woman painter, was born in 1844 and died in 1926. So, Cassatt lived from 1844 till 1926.::No fallacy


No one has ever proven that miracles do not happen. Therefore, miracles do happen.::Appeal to ignorance




You either hate parties or you love them. So, since you say you don't hate parties, you must love them.::False dilemma::It is not just a love-hate thing.


Each cell in the human body is invisible. Therefore, the human body itself is invisible.::Composition::Could you compose a worse argument?

I was there, I tell you. I stood within ten feet of the man. Either I was hallucinating or he levitated. And I wasn't hallucinating. Therefore, he levitated.::False dilemma::It is a dilemma, but perhaps there were mirrors involved?

Eb




People are either good or evil. And Doris is not good. Therefore, she is evil.::False dilemma::Good and evil and nothing in between?

Either you believe that the doctrine of reincarnation is true or you believe that it is false. Clearly, you do not believe that the doctrine of reincarnation is true. Accordingly, you must believe that it is false.::False dilemma::What if you don't know?

When it comes to morality, a person is either a cultural relativist or a dogmatist. Since you won't allow that infanticide is right for the Eskimos if they approve of it, you obviously aren't a cultural relativist. So, you must be a dogmatist.::False dilemma::Is that first premise true?


Either nonhuman animals are robots or they have thoughts and feelings just like humans have. Nonhuman animals are not robots. Hence, they have thoughts and feelings just like humans have.::False dilemma::Think harder about that first preise.

Religion is the opiate of the people. Therefore, religion is like a drug that can be used to make people forget or ignore the miserable conditions they live in.::Begging the question::If feels as though we are going round in circles.


Robert, I've heard you're a communist. So, let me tell you something. Around here, we know communism is evil. And we have ways of making communists see the error of their ways. The last communist who passed through this town suddenly saw the light after some of the boys had a little "talk" with him one night. I hope these facts will clarify things for you. You do understand that communism is evil, don't you?::Appeal to force::We have means of making you agree!

Yes, Jill argues for deconstruction. But her mind is so open her brains are falling out. You can safely ignore whatever she has to say.::Argument against the person::Attack on Jane not her arguments.

Consuming alcohol in large quantities is bad for your health. So, if you care about your health, you should consume alcohol in moderation or abstain from it entirely.::No fallacy::A reasonable appeal to prudence.



I find it mildly amusing that Mr. and Mrs. Billings are advocating school reforms. But  I certainly do not see any reason to take their proposal seriously. Both of them were poor students in high school.::Argument against the person::Attacking the Billings, not their arguments.

 Intelligent, refined people insist on the best wines. And our Old World Merlot is the best red wine available. Obviously, Old World Merlot is for you.::Appeal to the people::Join the crowd!


#16
I was there, I tell you. I stood within ten feet of the man. Either I was hallucinating or he levitated. And I wasn't hallucinating. Therefore, he levitated.::False dilemma::It is a dilemma, but perhaps there were mirrors involved?
#17
According to the Encyclopaedia Britannica, Mary Cassatt, who is often considered American's greatest woman painter, was born in 1844 and died in 1926. So, Cassatt lived from 1844 till 1926.::No fallacy::The Encyclopaedia Britannica is a reliable authority.
#18
When it comes to morality, a person is either a cultural relativist or a dogmatist. Since you won't allow that infanticide is right for the Eskimos if they approve of it, you obviously aren't a cultural relativist. So, you must be a dogmatist.::False dilemma::Is that first premise true?
#19
We never lost a war prior to Vietnam. What had changed? Well, I'll tell you: the generation that went off to fight in the Vietnam war was the first generation in this country to grow up on rock music. It was rock music that brought about our downfall.::False cause::Does rock music make for poor soldiers?
#20
Either nonhuman animals are robots or they have thoughts and feelings just like humans have. Nonhuman animals are not robots. Hence, they have thoughts and feelings just like humans have.::False dilemma::Think harder about that first preise.
#21
Religion is the opiate of the people. Therefore, religion is like a drug that can be used to make people forget or ignore the miserable conditions they live in.::Begging the question::If feels as though we are going round in circles.
#22
Logic varies as language varies. For logic is based on grammar. My chemistry professor said so.  And any intelligent person will agree that different languages have different grammars. But if logic varies as languages vary, then logic is relative to cultures.  Consequently, logic is relative to cultures.::





The school needs a football team. I hope you agree. One thing I can tell you for sure: if you want to fit in around here, you'll see this issue the way the rest of us do. And we all think the school needs a football team.::Appeal to the people::Be like us!


Folk dancing is bad because it leads to ballroom dancing, which in turn leads to modern dancing. And modern dancing leads to promiscuity, which causes a total breakdown in the moral fabric of a country, and hence a lapse into primitive savagery.::False cause

Scientists have shown that a person loses a very small but measurable amount of weight at the time of death. This weight loss is probably due to the soul's leaving the body at that time. What else could account for this phenomenon? Here we have unexpected scientific evidence for the existence of an immaterial soul.::False cause

Violent crime has been on the increase for the past two decades. The quantity of violent movies has also increased during this time. Therefore, in all likelihood, the cause of the increase in violent crime is the increase in the quantity of violent movies.::False cause

I have worn these socks to the last five baseball games. Each time I've gotten a base hit. So, these are my lucky socks. I play better when I wear them.::False cause

No one has been able to prove that astrology is nonsense. For this reason I have concluded that astrology is not nonsense--rather it is an insightful way of viewing our lives and the world around us.::Appeal to ignorance

I warned those boys not to stand on Prince Valdinsky's grave. He was murdered, you know. And when he was being buried, his mother put a curse on anyone who showed disrespect for his grave. I was there -- it was a very eerie thing to watch. Anyway, those boys wouldn't listen, and now look a them, all broken up from that automobile crash. I tell you, that curse worked!::False cause

My sociology professor says that monogamy is an unjust form of social organization. Therefore, monogamy is an unjust form of social organization.::Appeal to unreliable authority

According to Lilian Roxon's Rock Encyclopedia, it was an English band called The Zombies that came out with the hit record "She's Not There" in 1965. So, while you say "She's Not There" was by The Beatles, it was really by The Zombies.::No fallacy

Before television came along we didn't have much of a problem with illegal drugs. But people learn about drugs on TV, and then they want the drugs. So, TV is ruining this country.::False cause


You have argued that it is wrong for me to hunt deer. Well, you eat hamburger, and that involves the killing of cows. Moreover, it is obvious that there is no moral difference between killing cows and killing deer, so your argument is unsound.::Argument against the person::No explanation presently available

The poor people in many Third World countries are malnourished and highly susceptible to disease. These people are in need of help for their poverty is so great that many of them can do little to help themselves. But many Americans have discretionary income well beyond what they need personally and these (relatively) wealthy Americans could help the poor in the Third World--at least to some extent. Moreover, from a moral point of view it is good to help those who really need help. So, from a moral point of view, it would be a good thing for these (relatively) wealthy Americans to help the poor in the Third World.::No fallacy::No explanation presently available

I don't deserve a speeding ticket, officer. Yes, I admit I was going sixty in a school zone. But I've had a really rough day. I was angry about some stuff that happened at work. Everybody has to let some steam off once in a while, don't they? Give me a break.::Appeal to pity::No explanation presently available

Your honor, the witness has just lied to the court three times. This has been verified by the tape recordings and by the reports of all of the other witnesses. Therefore, I submit that the witness's testimony is untrustworthy.::No fallacy::No explanation presently available
